okay and Mischa because you know how to do this really well this is a zoom
recording so you know how all of that works we did it once together when you
were showing me things so Dr. Peat I would like to have Mischa just kind of
go over a bit what he's been doing and the aspect specific most specifically of
how you use how Mischa you use the ketogenic diet as a part of what you do
I know it's not the be all and end all by any means it's the breathing piece
because Mischa has become a really a warrior in terms of getting people's
breathing in good shape partially mentored by Artur Rakhimov another
friend and colleague of mine so I wanted to give him credit so Mischa why don't
you go ahead and kind of Dr. Peat a little bit the idea and then Dr. Peat
after he has if you would sort of maybe you have some questions or some remarks
that would be great and I will attempt to keep from sticking my nose in here
too much okay and then afterwards Dr. Peat I want to get that diet we're
talking about Mischa we were talking about how Dr. Peat many many he's a
becoming an expert on how to have a good nutritional diet based on his research
for how much a day back to Dr. Peat would you say well for in Mexico on Blake
College it was about $15 a day $15 a day I mean a month 15 a month 15 pesos a day
yeah and so yeah yeah but that was back before you were born Mischa it would be
hard to do it right now to do the same who knows I don't know we'll find out
okay so take it away Mischa and kind of go go for it and Dr. Peat whatever
questions you have at any time please jump in well it's a very big pleasure to
join in in conversation with you you but and well I I'm very very interested in
human physiology and I'm not a doctor I'm not a medical professional and I'm
not a specialist I see but I am more I try to see at the at the healing as an
engineer so I try to kind of combine different concepts and what I come to
through my limited experience now is that I see at the I made a kind of a
modal of human healing that I use to my patients to my clients and that is if I
may explain that is a is a pentagram actually the pentagram which consists of
the five star the five and start with five ends and there's a two groups of
ends the if you if you know the the Vitruvian man you remember what it is it
was the Leonardo da Vinci the drawing of the Vitruvian man you remember the
circle and the star in it and the man standing in the star it's called the
Vitruvian man and I'm talking about energy acquisition from the environment
to optimize energy acquisition to the body and then to optimize energy
distribution in the body and in the in the five-star energy acquisition is the
two main sources is the energy acquisition from the food
macronutrients and micronutrients and then acquisition from the from the air
that's oxygenation on the cellular level that's energy acquisition and energy
distribution that's a model we have acquisition here from the hands and then
energy distribution I base it as the triangle and I call it the triangle of
resilience and the top of the triangle that's the mental resilience and then
the in the base here and here that's the physical and immune resilience so my
idea is that when we all the five parts they are interconnected and interdependent
they are the pentagram is actually a mesh so I base my exercise on what I
called multi-purpose exercise if I take a physical part then I can connect it to
all the four others and I I make the exercise for example physical exercise
it's always a movement is a structural movement and this structural movement I
can connect and explain how it works on immunity on mental side on the on
breathing and actually also on nutrition and on digestion and the same with five
stars and the digestion has the very central role in it and what I use is the
ketogenic nutrition because I tried myself many different kinds of diets I
tried to be vegetarian and I tried to do paleo paleo and I tried just to eat
everything also a holistic diet and I found out that first on myself that's
the because I do a lot of sports I found out the ketogenic I never do bunking I
never go hypoglycemic never and it was really interesting because I used to
always to take on court with me I play tennis every day almost every day now I
used to play every day I used to start my day at seven o'clock on tennis court
to two times a week with the trainer and three times a week for matches playing
matches and I always had chocolate I always have a different kind of glucose
things and I always been I always I start all used to start morning eating a
very big breakfast and then going on court and and stopping after half an
hour 14 minutes and get something glucose or something because I was
really was like bunking because it's yeah I run a lot and it's I will always
play singles and in the singles you move a lot and use a lot of energy when you're
playing on certain level so I found out that in ketogenic I used to have a very
short nutritional window of like I eat first time at 12 o'clock and last time at
five o'clock with time it get it gets it got smaller and smaller so now for
example I eat last time at five o'clock in the in the in the daytime and then I
play tennis for example next morning at seven o'clock not having eaten anything
and I have plenty of energy I'm never bunking I eat the first time at 12
o'clock when I come home I'm not hungry and that's a very special thing
actually I like this way of eating a lot and I see on my clients that is working
perfect and the well my clients they have cancer they have diabetes they have
asthma and all the kind of disease that is based with systemic on systemic
inflammation could you be a little bit more specific about how you do the
ketogenic diet the specifics of what you're recommending and using yes sure
sure what I'm recommending in and using it's the for myself it's not the same
macro nutrient ratios that are I use for my clients for my clients I use
something called therapeutic ketosis and therapeutic ketosis is defined as 90
eight and half one and half 90 percent of energy coming from fat eight and half
percent of energy coming from a protein in one and a half coming from carbs
that's the call the ketogenic and what I use the model called keto I F C R or
therapeutic ketosis with intermittent fasting and caloric restriction caloric
restriction is defined as 75% of VMR basal metabolic rate and it can be a
little bit different from person to person for example when I work with a
chronic fatigue syndrome with ME it's the it's the most difficult as I see is
the most difficult of all of all illnesses of all as I experience it is
very very hard it's very hard to to gain energy in this and well intermittent
fasting means reducing your eating window or nutritional window and the
idea behind that is that we try to trigger autophagy and especially this
kind of autophagy that is called CMA chaperone mediated autophagy and
chaperone chaperone mediated autophagy that's a cellular cleaning of half of
the you know in intracellular fluid of proteins so the the cells are digesting
themselves the contains of themselves air and that's what plant claims or you
call it whatever but it's it's called autophagy and that's very healthy for
the the human cells and it starts about ten hours after the last the last food
in the stomach then you food as I understand so in order to to have the
cells as long time as possible in this autophagy state we reduce nutritional
window okay misha could you stop right there for a moment Dr. Peat any
reactions or questions so far what particular kinds of protein and fat
would you use well I use I use mostly well proteins that's the mostly animal
animal proteins different kinds of proteins we use meat fat meat I use well
avocado there's some protein there what else butter and but mostly that's that's
animal animal protein and the fats it's saturated fats mostly because the most
stable fats and then we use mono and saturated and try to avoid polyunsaturated
fat as much as possible what proportion between meat eggs milk cheese seafood
you see we don't I don't do so much I don't define the proportion so very much
because I tried to establish this diet very much together with a client in
order to fit the because we want to establish the process actually the
hardest thing in all of that is to see from the helicopter view and from the
helicopter view in order to establish the change the lifestyle change we need
to establish very strong process and for me to see if we if I want I normally
have my clients for a year like half a year to a year we work together until
they are okay and then they can go in maintenance and maintenance we don't we
don't work together as you know so constantly like every day like I do from
the start so to establish the process is very very crucial and I want them to eat
the food that they they prefer they like so that it has a very big very big value
here so some of them prefer more the seafood some of them prefer more you
know nice some kind and different kind of vegetable so it's it's a little bit
different but I try to tell them that seafood has some special specific kind
of micronutrients that they need but some of them don't like seafood for
example some of them don't like a fat meat so it's a it's always it's a
different from person to person I try to stick mostly to to macro nutrient
breakdown and go from there and very very slowly introduce new foods so they
get very kind of very different kind of the foods I really want them to to try
different kind of foods and some people that have eating disorders it's a very
very hard thing to do because they don't want to try new things just don't want
they refuse and sometimes when they are at my place I I do I love cooking and I
actually try to to show them very very fast how to do some different things and
combine just put the color eat eat try this try that sometimes it happens that
it works misha would it be useful to show a chart of one of your patients
would that be possible so Dr. Peat can see you know the kind of extraordinary
tracking that you do with people on all levels and maybe speak about that let me
start just a second I'll share my screen
[no speech detected]
Okay.
Thank you.
Yes, let me see how we share the screen.
Just a second.
Last time you did it yourself. I didn't do anything. So I'm just.
I'll try. I'll try here. No, just a second.
You start.
Should I hit share screen or not?
Oh, start share here. Yeah. I found it. Okay.
Can you see.
Can you see the screen.
Yes.
Can you see the screen. Okay.
So you see that's the.
That's the.
The online file that I have with every each of my clients where we work every, every day.
And as you see, there's something called journal.
You see, there's a different.
How do you call it in the Excel chart, Excel sheet, the different spreadsheets.
This one is called journal and this journal we, we have all our meetings and I write the program for the next day.
Or next week.
What kind of things we are doing.
And so next one is called breathing log and the breathing log.
I'll show you.
In the breathing log, we have a different kind of training. The red fields, you see the red columns called FR.
This is a fall off training. There's with a breathing breathing retraining with a froloughed device.
That's the device.
Dr. Peat, did you have you heard about froloughed device, the breathing device?
Yeah. Yes. Yeah. I said you that I sent you, you know, a summary of that.
A person that Dr. Peat had worked with who use a froloughed.
Yes, I remember. That's right. And Dr. Peat, I do it myself. I do the device myself.
I don't use the original froloughed device.
I do the device myself and I will show you how it looks like. Just a second.
And it's easy to make these, Dr. Peat.
If you want, you can make one yourself and it's actually probably a good thing to use if Catherine wants to use it. I know she was wanting to use the mask.
Misha also uses the mask, but he uses it mostly when he's exercising. OK. Now I try to stop sharing just a second.
The device looks like that.
That's the the flag. God, you're really wow.
The reason I said wow is because when you make it like he's making it, it's a huge amount of CO2. He's almost he's getting somewhere around 2%.
No, no, no, no. This is the smallest one. That's not mine. That's my girlfriend's. I'm a tiger.
Mine is 2 liters.
This one is 14.
But what I'm saying, Dr. Peat, is that by using this and breathing this way, he's getting upwards of 2% CO2. He's breathing.
The difference is in the froloughed device, we have only one possibility to adjust and that's the amount of water used.
We don't have other possibilities. In this device, we have three possibilities.
We have a possibility to change the diameter here.
The smaller the diameter, the bigger the resistance.
We have the possibility to change the length of the tube.
Sometimes I do the tube with two diameters, so I put a smaller diameter in this one so we can actually do the different resistance.
When we take the standard cap, then we can change the different kind of bottles.
You have to see that that's open at the end. The bottle is open at the end.
The bottle is open at the end here.
The fourth thing is, if we do the bottle here, not a clean cut, but a cut that is not clean, then we can also adjust the resistance.
Then the container. This container is the big container. The amount of water can be very different.
The fifth thing is that when we're training, we can close the container.
The amount of the air that it comes and blends with the CO2 in the container gets minimized.
Actually, that's five levels of adjustment.
I do the chair. That's the red column called Frohloff.
What it actually says is that I made my tables in the way that you can see the explanations of all the feelings.
Frohloff, do-it-yourself device exercise.
Frohloff is a respiration cycle ending average inhale to exhale ratio in seconds. A healthy adult should be able to go 20-30 minutes.
Why is it there, for example?
Here, it started with two-eight. It means two seconds, inhale, eight seconds, exhale.
It's only with the nose closed, so you're breathing like that.
For the nose closed, yes, yes, yes. It's much harder with the nose closed because you're really intensifying the CO2 that way.
You see, the average is taking-because this guy has cancer, this guy has chronic lymphatic leukemia.
You see, this column B with purple in purple, the second column, it's showing the average values for the day of exhalation.
Because what we do, we go down to two and two seconds inhalation, it will remain like that for months.
Inhalation is always at two, and then we just extend exhalation.
You see what happens. We started working in April, and I introduced him to Frohloff's device in June because he started doing other Botteko exercise.
And you see here, in November, his values are 35. So he's doing 235. Okay? Some other values, you see-
Excuse me, that means his exhale is 35 seconds long?
Yes, 35 seconds, yes. And he does the exercise for one and a half hours a day.
So that means he's breathing- He's breathing three times half an hour.
So he's breathing less than one liter of air per minute.
Yes, he's breathing very, very little. You see then, you see all these yellow columns.
And yellow columns, it's the columns about sleep hacking.
All of these values, that's about sleep hacking.
We have evening pulse, we have evening control pause, we have the amount of hours of sleep, we have the waking hour.
Then we have morning pulse, we have morning control pause, and we have maximum pause.
All of these things describe the quality of sleep and the improvement of quality of sleep.
What do you mean by sleep hacking?
Sleep hacking means that we try to improve the sleep because in the sleep we gain a lot of energy.
And by hacking the sleep, we can change, really we can speed up the process of recovery.
Okay, let's stop for a minute and see if Dr. Peat has some questions or some comments.
Do you check their temperature occasionally? Body temperature?
Body temperature, actually not. I knew you would ask this one.
Yes, no. But I will talk about you, about thermogenesis and the thermic equilibrium.
It's very, very interesting. It's one of the things that you are a lot of inspiration.
And I actually work with generating brown fat. But I'll tell you how.
Yes.
No, not measuring temperature. No. But maybe you should do that.
What about their pulse temperature or pulse rate before and after the breathing sessions?
Do you see a change of pulse rate?
Yes, yes, yes. There's always a pulse rate, the different pulse falls after breathing exercise.
But it's very, very different. It depends on kind of exercise.
Because you see, there's a lot of exercise my clients doing of exercise on full exertion,
with them making diminished breathing when we actually work on what I call progressive active relaxation.
And progressive active relaxation, that's a breathing retraining based on relaxation of diaphragm,
on progressive relaxation. And active, it means in movement.
And on this exercise, it's very often the pulse is sometimes the same, sometimes the same.
Sometimes it falls, sometimes it gets a little bit higher, but a little bit.
But this is a very, very good exercise. But what I see after this exercise, the control pause skyrockets.
Yes, but the pulse, it's not always reacting as in the breathing exercise while sitting.
It's a little bit different.
All right. I have a particular interest. I don't want to make this go on too long because I do.
Maybe we can do this again sometime and go pick up from here. I'll send you both a copy of the video.
But I wanted to get back into, for my own particular reason, how you use the ketogenic diet.
Because as Dr. Peat, as you pointed out, there are some possible significant problems with the ketogenic diet.
And maybe you want to mention some of those, Dr. Peat, and then Misha, you could sort of indicate how you either deal with that or whatever.
So, Dr. Peat, do you want to go ahead then and I'll get back to, Misha, get us off that screen and back onto the regular screen.
Yeah.
I think the problem is when you go into a lower state of oxidation or excess reductive condition, reductive stress,
alcohol poisoning can do the same thing, but some people on a high-fat diet go in the same direction as if they had used alcohol.
And that means that they're not oxidizing as fast as they should so that everything shifts.
The ketones that are being produced, they talk about the ketone ratio, acetoacetate, and beta-hydroxybutyrate.
But hydroxybutyrate isn't really a ketone.
And so it's the non-ketone which shows a reductive stress state if it's too high.
And so if something is going wrong and you're tending to make lactate out of your proteins, breaking down your proteins too fast instead of living on your pure fat,
that's where it becomes catabolic to the protein rather than just producing energy from fat.
How would the issues about prolactin, estrogen, and cortisol play in this process?
I think those are the ones that rise when you're in reductive stress, and it would show up in the blood as a rise in lactate and a decrease in bicarbonate and carbon dioxide,
as well as a shift from acetoacetate dominance to a relatively high beta-keto butyrate.
They don't think of hydroxybutyrate, I mean.
Now it seems to me, Misha, just following what Dr. Peat's saying, that the breathing that you're having these people do ends up protecting them enormously and healing.
So my concern was that it seems possible, and this is what I was wanting to point towards, it seems possible that the diet, that is the ketogenic diet,
may be assisting in some ways, but I think that the intensity of the breathing, which is way beyond anything that any of our colleagues do.
And maybe Artur does some of it, but you're really, you're the leader in terms of really pushing people that way, which is what Boteko did too, including the cold water dowsing,
which you talked about, you wanted to talk about a little bit about the thermothermic effect.
But it's the huge shift in maintenance of carbon dioxide. Do you get blood levels from carbon dioxide and carbonic acid?
What do you mean?
Well, do they get their blood gases done?
Yes, yes, sure. That's what I wanted. I wanted to show you all the sheets. That's one of the 10 sheets. That's only one of the 10 sheets. We have these sheets with blood work too.
Yeah, so I'm just saying that my sense is that the big thing that's making all the difference, because Boteko was able to cure cancers.
Sasha Stalmotsky kept telling me that they had done this, they had done that, and I just never had seen it because I never saw anybody do what you're doing.
But Boteko did. He pushed people to that level.
But you see, the idea is here that what I really want to promote is, I hate the word holistic because it's really used in some UH aspects that I not always like, but it's really holistic.
I want to promote a holistic view that we have to work if we really want to make a change that will last.
We have to both work with diet, with approval, which are the main sources of energy, as I see.
And then we have to also work with the distribution, with the optimization of distribution of energy, with the physical movement, structured movement, and with immunity.
And not manual, you know, lymph drain, but actually with lymph drain in movement.
That's what I incorporate in all the movement exercises.
Yes, the consciousness about how lymph works, how and how immunity works.
And we can really create a very, very strong, synergetic effect by combining these works in one multi-purpose exercise.
That's what I really believe.
And using a process knowledge, how to establish a strong process, I call it a Kaizen.
It's a Kaizen idea of making a progress with very, very small steps.
And that makes a very strong lifestyle change.
Let's go back to you, Dr. Peat.
Most of what Misha is talking about in terms of the exercise, the mental attitude, the rebreathing training, the intensity of it, I'm totally on board with that.
The problem, the place where I have a problem is the notion that the ketogenic diet is really, as you're doing it, is as useful as a better understanding of the kind of thermodynamic focus on functional and process, structural, functional and structural, from the standpoint of Dr. Peat.
So maybe Dr. Peat, you could speak to that a little bit in terms of how you use things like orange juice and milk, in particular, and eggs, as a way of the input of energy.
Dr. Peat's written this beautiful piece about Pavlov, and most people don't even know that the Pavlov's exploration of food was a tremendous piece part of his work, which most people don't even really know about.
So Dr. Peat, could you speak to that a little bit, please?
The thing that got me interested in the ketones was reading about the New Guineans who live essentially on potatoes.
51 weeks of the year, they live on potatoes, and one week they feast on pork, and their protein balance was measured, and there didn't seem to be enough protein in the potatoes to maintain such good physique.
And they found that their intestine was, the ordinary E. coli in the intestine were nitrogen fixing, and so they were catching nitrogen out of the air, combining it with something in the potatoes to be equivalent to the normal 7-year-old gram
requirement for proteins for maintaining good health.
So I wondered for a couple of years what it was in the potatoes that could be protein equivalent, and it turns out that it's the keto acids equivalent to the amino acids.
All you have to do is find ammonia, fixed nitrogen, and add it to the keto acids, and then you get the essential amino acids.
So it happened right around that time. A nature past sister was wasting away. She had gone down from 135 pounds to 65 pounds and looked like a skeleton. Her thighs literally were no bigger around than my wrists.
She was five feet six or seven tall, and she demonstrated eating, and she ate some scrambled eggs, and she tried to eat a high protein diet because of her wasting condition.
Her nature past brother had tried to run a variety of diets, and she kept wasting.
And right after, as she was just finishing a big plate of, I think it was ham and eggs, she burped, and the room filled with ammonia.
She said that always happens after eating, especially eating protein.
That made me suddenly remember the New Guineans who were nitrogen fixing in their intestines.
And so I had a fruit juicer. I sliced up some raw potatoes, put them through this centrifugal juicer, and a slimy translucent liquid came out like egg white.
And I scrambled that, like scrambled eggs. And so it was somewhat a protein-y mixture, but it had everything the potato contained.
She ate that and didn't burp and seemed comfortable eating it. So we, for a few days, juiced many pounds of potatoes and scrambled them.
And she was eating everything without a problem, and she started gaining weight.
And just as quickly as that, she was recovered. And next time I heard from her, she was at work, weighing her normal 135 pounds.
But we never figured--
What was her condition?
We never found out. She had been to many doctors who couldn't diagnose anything.
She had a strange moving lump that looked like maybe it was her pantry sticking up to the left of her stomach, like there was spasms in her intestine.
But the main thing was that she burped ammonia every time she ate.
And that just stopped immediately on the first potato meal.
Interesting.
So that got me interested in the keto acids. But then I saw studies on coconut oil, that the more coconut oil they fed the rats, the leaner they were.
So the high-fat, low-fat, and medium-fat diets, if it was average, unsaturated fat, they got fatter in proportion to how much fat they ate.
But still, they were all very fat rats. The ones that ate lots of coconut oil were the leanest rats.
So a high-fat diet made them lean and healthy.
I experimented on myself. I found I could lose weight just by adding coconut oil to my regular diet.
We use a lot of coconut oil with my work. I use a lot of coconut oil, yes.
I do also for cleansing oil pooling, both morning and evening.
It does something to increase the metabolic rate. I think it's diluting the stored poofa, stored and polyunsaturated, which I think act as a break on the metabolism.
A fat lawyer was in a hurry. He said, "If it'll help me lose weight, I'll drink a cup of it."
He said he thought he almost caught fire. He was so hot.
A couple of people had said that when they drank approaching a cup, they felt dangerously overheated.
Sometimes we would make a batch of ice cream consisting of about 40% coconut oil.
We could each eat a cup of fat at a sitting without overheating because we had been doing it gradually.
I think it's a matter of adjusting to a higher metabolic level. Thinking about the difference between the keto acid equivalents of the protein and the fat metabolism,
which can produce some ketones, the RL Veach did research back around 1970, '68, '70, '72.
Excuse me, Dr. Peat. That's RL. What's the last name?
Veach, V-E-E-C-H. He was feeding ketone supplements, including ketone acids, keto acids, to kidney patients who had no kidney function.
He found they did fine if he adjusted the diet so that they could recycle their protein and phosphate.
The Burr study that was used as an argument that essential fatty acids exist, that linoleic acid is required for making synapses and brains and so on.
A guy that worked in his lab, I think his name was William Redmond Brown, decided to try it on himself to see if he could live without essential fatty acids.
So they put him on an absolutely chemically purified diet, no fat whatsoever, extracted milk as the protein, added sugar as the only calorie,
and had his only natural food, I think it was a half of an orange per day.
And he wasn't in perfect health when he started, somewhat high blood pressure and migraines and such.
And after a couple of months on this sugar and milk protein diet, his migraine headaches went away, never to return.
And he never developed any signs of fat deficiency, so really he was, for six months, he proved that an absolutely fat-free diet was good for the health.
And the interesting thing that he saw was that his phosphate levels stabilized at a lower level.
And in recent years, a protein called Clotho, K-L-O-T-H-O, has been identified as, in a mutant mouse that lacks it, they prematurely age.
So this is called the anti-aging Clotho protein, and what it does is regulate phosphate.
And the interesting thing about William Brown's diet was that his phosphate was regulated downward, and that's the effect of the anti-aging protein, Clotho.
So I think there's something about the sugar diet, which sucrose is half of a keto sugar, and the ketone of the fructose seems to have the same effect as the ketone that's produced in either the potato diet,
the keto acid-rich diet, or the ketogenic diet.
And when you're healthy, the ketones dominate.
The acetoacetate, where you have the double-bonded oxygen, is higher than the hydroxybutyrate, which is reduced.
And the keto sugar, fructose, lowers the free phosphate and also the ATP of the cell.
The cell is producing energy very fast, but it is keeping the ATP and the phosphate slightly lower than normal, making the cell run faster.
Like the brown fat metabolism, dissipating heat is its function, and the ketones, when they're in the oxidized state, I think are keeping every cell, not just your brown fat, but your brain cells and everything, wasting heat, generating heat,
and preventing obesity and all of the sluggish slowing down symptoms of stress and aging.
So I see keeping the ketone ratio in an oxidized state, keeping the cell in an oxidized state, no matter how you're doing it, I think you end up in the same place.
So breathing a high concentration of carbon dioxide is pushing the cell.
The intrinsic electron affinity of the carbon dioxide, it's an acid in itself, it affects the cell, pushing it towards the oxidized state the same way the ketones do.
The oxidized ketones are retracting electrons from the cells.
Well, I'd like to stop here, if that's okay, Mischa, I know you have maybe give you a chance to make one more comment or so, and then stop and I'll send you both a copy of this and then we'll see about maybe if it's okay with you, Dr. Peat, to go forward with this a little bit more, would that be all right with you?
We'll sit another time. Okay, take it away. Go ahead.
Well, it sounds very interesting, Dr. Peat, and it gives a new perspective of what ketosis is and how we can thrive on different kinds of diets.
But you see, I'm trying to do something that is easily understandable and is easily kind of doable by persons.
And I tried also to cooperate with some paleoanthropologists that are working on what kind of defining what kind of diet the primitive people in the time where our DNA was formed, what they were eating, what kind of diet they were eating.
And it looks like it's not, we cannot be for 100% sure, but it looks like still many primitive people in the world, they use diets that are resembling very much ketogenic diet and the thriving of it and on it and don't have cardiovascular disease, no obesity and no diabetes.
And that's why I chose the ketogenic diet and I see there's a lot of scientific research right now on it. And I see myself, the results with, I just had a patient, a client with diabetes one, having diabetes one for 40 years, 52 years old doctor.
And after four hours, four months of work with me, he's a A1, he's fallen 2 millimole per liter under the normal rate in four months.
And the diabetes one.
So you see, this is this rocks, really rocks, what I see now, and I'm really, it's so interesting area because you see, there's a lot of applications and people I can see that people really can thrive on it.
And they shed kilos, like very, very fast, the inflammation stops. And I actually also use ketogenic diet on my dog.
And my dog had an inflammation on the here, a bursitis here, a very, very strong bursitis like that. And the doctors say that he has to be operated. I say no, no operation at all.
So I started massaging him. And then I went to the butcher and said, I would like to have some lamb fat. Please give me lots of lamb fat.
So he, after two months of lamb fat, the bursitis, all the inflammation vanished. And he's not humping anymore. No pills, no surgery, nothing.
So he eats lamb fat and lamb, you know, the rest, real meat, real meat.
And not just muscle meat, you mean organ meats as well.
Organ meats. Yes. Yes. But mostly fat. Yeah. I give him a little bit of apple, too. During the day, I give him some cabbage, actually, because he's a, yeah, he's a Russian.
So cabbage, it's, you have to have cabbage. Otherwise, we cannot coexist in the same house.
Well, I want to thank you. Thank you, Dr. Peat so much. This has just been enormously instructive to me.
I will send both of you a copy of this. And we'll set up a time that works for both of you in the not too distant future to go further with this, if that's okay.
Would be great. But and Dr. Peat, it was so enriching experience. Thank you very, very much.
There's a lot of ideas and views on physiology that I never been close to before. It's very, very interesting. Thank you.
Thank you. Okay, thank you all. Have a great day. Bye-bye now. Bye.